ok so let's continue on with our
discussions about time zones now as you
saw it's fairly easy to convert UTC to
any local time using the python
timezone pytz but going the
other way does present a problem so
that's converting local time back to
UTC so in the UK for example the clocks
went back one hour at two a.m. on sunday
25th of october 2015 so if you have
a local time of 130 on that day and
there's no way to tell if that was 130
that happened before the clocks changed
or afterwards of course I'm talking
daylight saving time so given a UTC
time python can tell which one it was
but it is possible to go the other way
unless the time was also stored with its
timezone information and at times it
will be either gmt or BST which stands
for british summer time the long and the
short of it is that the safest way to
deal with local times is to immediately
convert them to UTC when you get them in
working UTC only converting the back to
local time when you display them to the
users of your program so that may not be
something that you thought of before
but it does make sense to do that
again what we're talking about here is
to immediately convert a timer your going to use
locally to UTC when you get them
so only work in UTC but then you convert
them back to the local time when you
want to display them to the users of
your program everything else they are all other
times it's actually UTC that really gets rid
all lot of the problem
so in the first date time example all
three of the times we printed out were
naive that was there's no time zone
information associated with them all we
got was the local time or the UTC times
now pytz is there to help us and it
provides a localized function that can
be used to convert naive local datetime
into an aware date time
let's have a look at an example of how
to go about doing and for
this example we open up
another python file new python file
and we'll just call we will call it aware time
let's just start typing....
...
run just to get us going local time
and UTC time that's fine let's go
have a look at using this localized
functions so going to type....
....
....if you run that
and see we got local timezone Utc now
and lets do the second one for the UTC
aware times so...
...
...so if we run that
again that now we can see the output for both
of them and you can now see that the where
dates are aware because they now included
offset from UTC that's the + on the
end
strictly speaking the concept of a
timezone for UTC doesn't really make sense
but from a programming perspective you
can see that would make life easier to
treat UTC's as if it were a time zone but hang
on both of the where times are
showing their time zones as UTC which isn't
really what we want at all
and that careful reading of the PYTZ
documentation which I'm going to bring
up on the screen
good idea to actually go have a look at
that I'll just paste the link in there's
a link there and you'll be able to see
that in the resources section of this
video and if we do a search for
localized...you can see
that it points out that localize is used
as a naive date time with no time zone
information down here on the screen
so could probably be more
specific but instead it's left for us to
realize that if the original date time
hasn't got time zone
information itself then pytz is going to
have a hard time working out what it
should be at all so all it can really do
is provide an offset and set the time
zone to UTC not particularly useful in
our case but fortunately the standard
datetime module provides an as time zone
method this converts and aware time to use
the specified time zone or the local time zone
if none is given that is key there so the
correct way to deal with this is to take
the advice given above always work in
UTC
and only convert to local time when
you're displaying that time on the
screen to the user what that means is
that we shouldn't be localizing the
result of date time now but instead
using datetime . UTC now let's have a
look and change the code and see what
happens
go back to intelliJ close this down
and looking at the code on line 10
we're going at the end of that we're
going to put....so we still
localize UTC on line 10 as you can see so that
it actually contains the time zone but
then we use the as timezone method to
convert it to a time zone we actually
want and defaulting at this stage for the
computer local time because we didn't
provide a tz info in the
brackets there's as a parameter so if we
run this you can see the time zone has now
defaulted + 10 30 which is what is in
Australia without daylight saving time
Adelaide central Daylight Australian
central daylight time is the timezone that I am in
and it's normally plus 9 30 but
in day light saving time we add an hour
plus 10 30 so you can see it's defaulted
successfully to the local timezone using
the . as timezone method and of
course I didn't pass a tz info object
so that's why it's just defaulted to
whichever time zone you're in so if
you run this on your computer you'll get
your local timezone wherever or whatever
part of the world you're actually in so
it's time to start thinking about the
challenge but before we start the
challenge i'm going to do is localize
2 UTC times and show how UTC can
copy with daylight savings time changes when the
local time cannot which is pretty useful
and so that we can really see what
happens we're going to use tiem stamps
that is second since epoch so the first
step is to work at the number of seconds
we want to represent a datetime it falls
into the gap caused by the DS time
change
let's go ahead and do that we'll just
put this code below so I'm going to
start putting....
...
...remembering that the
reason I'm using that time is that falls
within the time that the clocks will
put back in the UK
JP came up with that for us and
the actual number is 1445733000 so if
you run this the number that should be
coming back is 144573 triple zero
but this example is going to be
different depending where you run it so the reason
for that is that it will only give you that
number if you run on a computer set to gmt
time zone such as if you're in the UK
during winter but that as i'm
recording this in adelaide i'm getting a
completely different number the number
of course you can see on the screen is
1445698800 and of course if you run it
on your computer and you're in a
different times now you'll get a
different numbers and this would make
more sense as we run the program so lets
just finish the program off now
so what I'm going to do is set....
...
...so we've created a new
datetime object called gap time and
initially represents 25th of october 2015 1:30 am
being naive it contains a no zone
information and actually represents that
date time in local time so gap time is
displayed both as a date and a unix
timestamp as you can see in depending on
where you are around the world as i mentioned you
may or may not get the same result because it
just really comes down to your local
timezone now the actual value we wanted
is hard-coded because unless you run the
program in the gmt time zone you may get
the right number so the value on
line 21 is the is the time for
the correct time zone in the UK
and T which is set on line 22 we set
to one-hour greater than this and the way
we're doing that we're looking at s as
being equal to this date here remember it's
the number of seconds since epoc from 19
which was first of january 19 to this
date and we're adding basically adding
an hour because 60 x 60 60 seconds
in a minute 60 minutes to an hour so adding
those two together
t is going to be equal to that time
there we define on line 17 plus 1 hour
which takes us past the daylight saving
time change so we've done that what we want
to do is want to create tz info object
so to do that we're gonna type...
....this time we
are going to use a parameter and we're
going to type....
...
remembering s is the date defined on line 17
or the number of seconds since epoch
....then we want to convert it to a
time zone......
gb on line 24 is
set to the time zones for the UK so
that's the first one that's before
that's the 1 30 am from that date and
the dt2 i'll
copy that and paste it
we're going to set that to the from
timestamp its going to be T which of
course is the one hour after and then
what we want to do is print them out....
...
so basically we've created a tz
objects and localized the date-time
objects we created from the from
timestamp method which obviously
converts from the second back to the
valid date time object and then we're
using the as timezone but this time we
specify the gb time zone using that
we're not using the default parameteres were
passing the gb timezone so we can
calculate it in that time zone otherwise
if you recall it locally it
default to whatever the local time
zone is and we don't want to this case
because we specifically we're looking at
doing this in UK time so if we run this you
find that the mistake we made here
again looking at those results probably aren't what
we thought they should be because
the time are completely out so we get
as you can see there in the first case
we're getting 11 a.m. a midday
so 11am for s and 12 midday for t instead
of getting 130 am which is a little bit
weird if you think about it so the
mistake we made is we've converted the
time stamp using from time stamp method now
the documentation states that this
returns the local date corresponding to
the timestamps so what we've done is
we've not heeded the advice to always
work in UTC in other words the local
data is being involved in this which we
didn't want to happen so again as you
can see the results weren't what we are
expecting which would have been 1 30am
on that date taking account of daylight
saving time as well with the
beforehand and with the after this example
was developed by JP and was
developed for the UK so it actually
work fine
so if you're doing something similar
then the chances are you use your local
timezone when you're doing your testing
so you would see it working fine but of
course when someone else wants to run
this like in my case I'm running this
from a computer in Australia in a
completely different time zone it
doesn't work so you could see by that in
this example errors like this can be
really difficult to spot because your
program appears to work when you tested
in your time zone and you get the
correct results but then of course when
someone else runs it in a different
time zone they get different results
it's only when you do that test in
another time zone as we are seeing here or
after daylight saving kicks in that you
start getting inconsistent results so if
you're dealing with international dates
then virtual machines are really
invaluable when testing your programs because
of course you can set those to
different various time zones around the
world and will do suggest you do that is
dealing with program that uses a
lot of dates and the great advantage of
the doing that is you can run your program in
these various vms and make sure that
your programs your code still perform should
now to fix this program how do we go around
fixing this because obviously we have got
program that doesn't work we need to
actually change the code on line 25
and 26 so where we've got from timestamp
again from timestamp is using the local
date we want to use the UTC from
timestamp which make sure that we're
actually working in UTC all the time so
we used the use so....you
notices that methods is existing for
us UTC and everything else be the same
still being calculated but this initial
calculation is now going to be correctly
alculated in UTC so go ahead and
run that you can now see that we
actually got the correct results so both
time stamps display at the same date and time
which we expected because of course the
first one was before daylight saving
time which was 2 a.m. UK time so it
because we've gone to daylight saving time
in the second after second date the time
the variants has been adjusted back to 0 but
the actual time is the same for both so
there's no offset the
offset 00 in the second example and its 01
in the first example because that's
course that's how daylight saving time
works when we actually convert it back
because basically the second example
we are putting the clocks back one hour
for time zone
and the great example of this is now
that we make this change using the
UTC from time stamp and if you run this
anywhere in the world because we're
dealing in UTC time it's going to be
correct and it's actually going
to work just fine i'm just about to wrap
up on this and then in the next video
we're going to go ahead and start the
challenge
do you want you to notice that the
pytz module tz info objects
can cope quite happily with this with
this scenario of working no matter which
time zome it's running which is pretty
handy and although both date times in
this example is displayed at the same
time I just want to be clear that the
offsets are different here on the end of
this here this plus 01
this is before the clocks went back so
the offset was plus one from UTC time
and the second time plus 00 was of course
when the clocks went back into UK time
after 2am it correctly put that back to
that's it ok so I'm going to finish this
video here in the next video we're going
to work on a challenge to help you
understand what
you've been taught in these last couple
of time zone videos and will see
you in that next videos